Just like with any other job there's a big political aspect to being in
the military, a lot of it has to do with your personality so if you're
very likable if you can make friends on the spur of the moment
then you probably have a really good career because people want you
to work with them, they say "oh ya know give me Chief Anderson, he's
a good guy you know it's fun working with him." If you're gonna be
down in the 'bilges', or you know which is like the dirty places of
the of the ship, or if you're gonna be up on the top of the aircraft
carrier you know working on some antenna, then the person that you're
gonna be working with for that couple of hours you want them to be
friendly you want to kind of have a joke you want to be able to be
around them for several hours and not get tired, you want the time
go fast so obviously if you're very personable then you have a higher
chance of being being pushed forward. That being said, many people
try to be fair you know fairness is very very pushed on all of the
leadership so give to their to their subordinates, whether you're an
introvert whether you're an extrovert we try to grade you based on
the the best work that you do and hopefully you get promoted that way.
Yes, favoritism does exist.